1. vscode download and setup
2. hello-world.js console.log sample and in terminal window:node hello-world.js 
3. npm init vue@3 .  instals vue3 with some options
4. ctrl +shft+P opens commandPalet  
5. npm install instals all dependencies. imported edilen degistirilince used name de degisiyor. click developer:reload window command in commandPalet
6. preferences:open settings (UI) search "format" and click "Format on Save"
7. sarch "default formatter" in UI settings and select "prettier" as default formatter
8. in terminal write "npx prettier --check ." for check all the files
9. in terminal write "npx prettier --write ." for arrange all the files
10. in ".prettierrc.json" file add ""singleQuote": true" to change doublequote to singleQuote. (bunu begenmedim)
11. add to the package.json in scripts part in two lines:"format": "prettier --write .","format:check": "prettier --check ." so run in terminal format and format:check
12. setup "ES lint" to make automatic search in UI settings "code actions" then in setings.json add ""editor.codeActionsOnSave": {}" with parameter ""source.fixAll.eslint": true" but i did not like it for now.
13. add "Vue 3 snippets by hollowtree" and "Vue vscode snippets by sarah.drasner" extention
14. add "snippet generator by Wenfang Du" extantion to produce your own snippets easily.
15. in UI settings search for margin and enable "Editor:Glyph margin" and command palette write debug and open javascript Debug terminal
16. in JS debug terminal "node debug-test.js" and in vs code debug data appear.
17. in terminal run "npm run dev" command and debug data is in Browser App.
18. "advanced new file" extention create files anywehere in workspace from the keyboard.
19. "div>span*5.the-span-$" in a div puts 5 spans with a numbered classname for each.
20. "div>span*5{meraba-$}" in a div puts 5 spans with a numbered content for each.
21. in UI settings search for linked Editing and enable it to change the tags easily.
22. Emmet in html and css very usaful. m10px => margin: 10px ...
23. extension "incrementor by Neil Smith"
24. "Tailwind CSS Intellisense by Tailwind Labs" is an CSS tooling extension for VScode.
25. Install "Open in NPM by Fabio Spampinato" extension and open a pinia file.
26. Install "Import Cost by Wix" extension and see the size of a pinia file.
27. Install "Npm Browser by Dennis Van Hest" extension and search npm packages from VScode.
28. Install "Markdown All in one by Yu Zhang" extension and write Markdown from VScode.
29. Install "Gitlens-Gitsupercharged by Gitkraken" extension and gitle from VScode.
30. settings.json keybindings.json good idea for sharing settings.